update: some general AI advice for the shipathon page (#748)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/temp/shipathon-starter-guide.md

* Read the [general article on publishing KMP apps](multiplatform-publish-apps.md).
* Don't forget about the [privacy manifest](multiplatform-privacy-manifest.md) required by the Apple App Store.

## Using AI for KMP development

### Before you start

#### Use the free Junie access

Junie is a JetBrains AI agent.

> For shipathon participants, JetBrains offers free access to the EAP version of the Junie CLI agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Shipathon participants, JetBrains offers free access to the EAP version of the Junie CLI agent.
```

> Your Junie agent can also be used through the [AI chat feature in IntelliJ IDEs](https://www.jetbrains.com/ai-ides/#getstarted).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use your Junie agent through the [AI chat feature in IntelliJ IDEs](https://www.jetbrains.com/ai-ides/#getstarted).
```

<a as="button" href="https://surveys.jetbrains.com/s3/Build-with-Junie-at-Shipaton-2026-Application-Form" mode="classic" icon="arrow-right" icon-position="right">Claim your Junie access</a>

#### Set up and commit AGENTS.md

AI agents heavily rely on AGENTS.md files when exploring an unfamiliar codebase,

> so accurate and comprehensive context can noticeably improve the quality of insights and generated code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so accurate and comprehensive context can noticeably improve the quality of their insights and generated code.
```

For example, simply noting that your project uses Kotlin Multiplatform can help avoid a lot of cross-platform issues.

To learn about the format and see examples, check out the [AGENTS.md](https://agents.md/) website.

#### Configure useful MCP servers

> These MCP servers can be useful for an AI agent trying to build an app in the KMP context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These MCP servers can be useful for an AI agent building an app in the KMP context:
```

* The [klibs.io](https://github.com/JetBrains/klibs-io/blob/master/integrations/mcp/README.md) server
  helps to look for a suitable multiplatform library.
* The [Compose Hot Reload](compose-hot-reload.md#mcp-server-for-ai-agents) server

>   allows the agent to quickly iterate on the UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  allows the agent to quickly iterate on the UI.
```

### Build features

#### Use planning mode

> For larger tasks and distributed work, **planning mode** supported by most agents can help break down the task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For larger tasks and distributed work, most agents support **planning mode**, which can help break down the task
```

and generate a clear step-by-step instruction that you can verify before the code generation starts in earnest.

Spending time to review and refine the results of the work done in planning mode usually produces significantly better results
for implementing:
* user-facing features from scratch,
* architectural changes,
* library integrations,
* large refactorings.

#### Validate AI-generated changes

On top of the general AI non-determinism, Kotlin Multiplatform introduces multifaceted context that is hard to cover comprehensively.
For example, it is common for changes to be implemented well and working for one platform and breaking another.

> As a way to address this, it's a good idea to introduce explicit acceptance criteria:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this, it's a good idea to introduce define acceptance criteria:
```

> * Run target-specific tests after whenever they are available after introducing any changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Run target-specific tests after introducing changes, whenever such tests are available.
```

* Verify that all configured KMP targets successfully build before considering a task complete.
* Review the implementation for platform-specific APIs leaking into common code:

>   this can lead to agents (and humans) trying to use these APIs in later stages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  this can lead agents (and humans) to use these APIs in later stages.
```

#### Use Kotlin AI skills

The Kotlin team builds and maintains AI skills aimed at solving Kotlin-specific problems.
See the [skills repository](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlin-agent-skills) and install the skills for your agent.

#### Use Swift Package Manager to integrate native iOS libraries

For iOS functionality that does not yet have a multiplatform library supporting it,
you may need to integrate native iOS libraries.
We recommend using SwiftPM packages and the [corresponding DSL](multiplatform-spm-import.md) for configuring such dependencies.

> Kotlin team maintains an [AI skill aimed at CocoaPods to SwiftPM migration](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlin-agent-skills/tree/main/skills/kotlin-tooling-cocoapods-spm-migration),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kotlin team maintains an [AI skill aimed at CocoaPods to SwiftPM migration](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlin-agent-skills/tree/main/skills/kotlin-tooling-cocoapods-spm-migration),
```

which can also be useful for setting up SwiftPM integration from scratch. 

#### Set up agent orchestration

JetBrains Air offers agent orchestration which can help speed up work by coordinating multiple agents
working on different parts of the project simultaneously.

<a as="button" href="https://air.dev/" mode="classic" icon="arrow-right" icon-position="right">Try out Air</a>

### Iterate on UI

#### Use Figma to generate UI designs and Compose code

> The [Figma MCP server](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/32132100833559-Guide-to-the-Figma-MCP-server)

Reviewer: Should it be in the list of useful MCP servers?

Author: Figma is a paid product and much more optional than the rest, so I hesitate to put it up there.

can help with converting designs into Compose code.

For generating UI designs from scratch, consider [Google Stitch](https://stitch.withgoogle.com/) or [Figma Make](https://www.figma.com/make/).

#### Use Gemini CLI as the agent for Compose UI tasks

We have seen consistently good results with Compose code generation from the Google's model even in the [Flash family](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/models#gemini-3-stable).

> It offers a good balance of generation speed, token consumption, and UI quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have seen consistently good results when generating Compose code with Google's model, including models in the [Flash family](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/models#gemini-3-stable).
They offer a good balance of generation speed, token consumption, and UI quality.
```

#### Use Compose Hot Reload to iterate on UI

[Compose Hot Reload](compose-hot-reload.md) enables almost real-time UI updates that reflect changes
you — or your agent — make in the Compose code.

To help agents work with UI, you can add the [Compose Hot Reload MCP server](compose-hot-reload.md#mcp-server-for-ai-agents)
to your agent configuration.

> It enables the agent to directly trigger the reload, take screenshots, and even interact with the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It enables the agent to trigger reloads directly, take screenshots, and even interact with the UI.
```
